[DOC-3743] SMP self-managed MinIO object storage (#3346)
harness/developer-hub: tutorials/self-managed-enterprise-edition/use-self-managed-minio-object-storage.md

sidebar_label: External self-managed MinIO
description: Learn how to use self-managed object storage with MinIO.
sidebar_position: 2
---

Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition enables you to configure self-managed object storage with MinIO. MinIO is an object storage server designed for large-scale private cloud infrastructure. It aggregates persistent volumes into scalable distributed object storage using Amazon S3 REST APIs.

You can install MinIO on your preferred VMs and provide the endpoint in your Harness Helm charts. This topic describes how to set up 4 MinIO servers.

### Prerequisites

Make sure to meet the MinIO prerequisites before you set up self-managed object storage. For prerequisites, go to [Object Storage for Linux](https://min.io/docs/minio/linux/operations/install-deploy-manage/deploy-minio-multi-node-multi-drive.html#prerequisites) in the MinIO documentation.

### MinIO hardware requirements

- 4 VMs
- 4 cores per VM
- 8 GB memory per VM
- 100 GB disk per VM (SSD preferred)
- 1GB/s minimum network bandwidth
- Ubuntu 20.04 LTS operating system

### Nginx hardware requirements

- 1 VM
- 4 cores per VM
- 8 GB memory per VM
- 1GB/s minimum network bandwidth

> - Ubuntu 20.04 LTS operating system

Reviewer: Should these be subordinate sections to Prerequisites? Or should the `Prerequisites` title be `MinIO Prerequisites`?

### Create an Nginx LoadBalancer VM

> To set up MinIO, you must first create a VM for the Nginx LoadBalancer with the above hardware requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up MinIO, you must first create a VM for the Nginx load balancer with the above hardware requirements.
```

Reviewer: Not sure why you spelled load balancer as LoadBalancer.

Author: Thanks @michaelcretzman. I think it was that way in the tech doc I worked from. Nice catch. 

The K8s service type is LoadBalancer. We use it in the docs, mostly SMP and Chaos, for example: https://developer.harness.io/tutorials/chaos-experiments/first-chaos-engineering/#creating-a-demo-application-and-observability-infrastructure. For this sentence, makes sense to me to update it since were aren't showing terminal output or discussing a particular command.

> To create a new VM instance for the Nginx LoadBalancer, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new VM instance for the Nginx load balancer, do the following:
```

1. Select the machine type based on the hardware requirements for Nginx.

2. Change the boot disk to Ubuntu 20.04 LTS.

3. Reserve an internal static IP address.

4. Reserve an external static IP address.

### Create the MinIO server VMs

Next, you must create 4 VMs with the MinIO hardware requirements.

To create the MinIO server VMs, do the following:

> 1. Create a new VM instance with following configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a new VM instance with the following configuration.
```

2. Select the machine type based on the hardware requirements.

3. Change the boot disk to Ubuntu 20.04 LTS.

4. Reserve an internal static IP address.

5. Attach an additional disk to the VM.

> ### Set up the Nginx LoadBalancer
> 
> Next, set up the Nginx LoadBalancer.
> 
> To set up the Nginx LoadBalancer, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Set up the Nginx load balancer

Next, set up the Nginx load balancer.

To set up the Nginx load balancer, do the following:
```

   # This value *must* match across all MinIO servers. If you do
   # not have a load balancer, set this value to to any *one* of the
   # MinIO hosts in the deployment as a temporary measure.
   MINIO_SERVER_URL="http://<external-ip-of-nginx-vm>"
   MINIO_BROWSER=on
   MINIO_BROWSER_REDIRECT_URL="http://<external-ip-of-nginx-vm>/minio/ui"
   ```

10. Start the MinIO service.

   ```
   sudo systemctl start minio.service 
   ```

11. Check the MinIO status.
 
   ```
   sudo systemctl status minio.service
   ```

12. Repeat the process for your other three VMs.
   
### Test MinIO connectivity

To test your MinIO connectivity, do the following:

1. Go to `http://<NGINX_VM_EXTERNAL_IP>`, and sign in using the username and password in your `/etc/default/minio` file.

2. Create a bucket and upload a test file.

3. SSH into one of your MinIO VMs.

4. Check the contents in the `/mnt/disks/disk1/` disk.

### Configure your Harness environment and Helm chart

Now you're ready to configure your Harness Self-Managed Enterprise Edition environment and Helm chart.

To configure your Harness environment and Helm chart, do the following:

> 1. Create a secret in the namespace where Harness is installed with following data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a secret in the namespace where Harness is installed with the following data.
```
